README.md, before:

# observe

## :warning: WARNING: observe is still in development :warning: _

At the moment, this is "work-in-progress" with Semantic Versions of `0.n.x`.
Although it can be reviewed and commented on,
the recommendation is not to use it yet.

## Synopsis

`observe` is a command in the
[senzing-tools](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-tools)
suite of tools.
This command receives
[Observer](https://github.com/Senzing/go-observing)
messages over gRPC.

[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/senzing/observe.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/senzing/observe)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/senzing/observe)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/senzing/observe)
[![go-test.yaml](https://github.com/Senzing/observe/actions/workflows/go-test.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Senzing/observe/actions/workflows/go-test.yaml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache2-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/Senzing/observe/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Overview

`observe` performs the following:

## Install

1. The `observe` command is installed with the
   [senzing-tools](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-tools)
   suite of tools.
   See senzing-tools [install](https://github.com/Senzing/senzing-tools#install).

## Use

```console
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/senzing/g2/lib/
senzing-tools observe [flags]
```

1. For options and flags:
    1. [Online documentation](https://hub.senzing.com/senzing-tools/senzing-tools_observe.html)
    1. Runtime documentation:

        ```console
        export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/senzing/g2/lib/
        senzing-tools observe --help
        ```

1. In addition to the following simple usage examples, there are additional [Examples](docs/examples.md).

### Using command line options

1. :pencil2: Specify database using command line option.
   Example:

    ```console
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/senzing/g2/lib/
    senzing-tools observe
    ```

1. See [Parameters](#parameters) for additional parameters.

### Using environment variables

1. :pencil2: Specify database using environment variable.
   Example:

    ```console
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/senzing/g2/lib/
    senzing-tools observe
    ```

1. See [Parameters](#parameters) for additional parameters.

### Using Docker

This usage shows how to initialze a database with a Docker container.

1. :pencil2: Run `senzing/senzing-tools`.
   Example:

    ```console
    docker run \
        --rm \
        senzing/senzing-tools observe
    ```

1. See [Parameters](#parameters) for additional parameters.

### Parameters

- **[SENZING_TOOLS_LOG_LEVEL](https://github.com/Senzing/knowledge-base/blob/main/lists/environment-variables.md#senzing_tools_log_level)**

## References

- [Command reference](https://hub.senzing.com/senzing-tools/senzing-tools_observe.html)
- [Development](docs/development.md)
- [Errors](docs/errors.md)
- [Examples](docs/examples.md)

Commit message:

63.dockter.1 (#64)
* #63 Migrate repository

* #63 Migrate repository

* #63 Prepare for versioned release

* #63 Reinstate Makefile

README.md, after:

# observe

If you are beginning your journey with
[Senzing](https://senzing.com/),
please start with
[Senzing Quick Start guides](https://docs.senzing.com/quickstart/).

You are in the
[Senzing Garage](https://github.com/senzing-garage)
where projects are "tinkered" on.
Although this GitHub repository may help you understand an approach to using Senzing,
it's not considered to be "production ready" and is not considered to be part of the Senzing product.
Heck, it may not even be appropriate for your application of Senzing!

## :warning: WARNING: observe is still in development :warning: _

At the moment, this is "work-in-progress" with Semantic Versions of `0.n.x`.
Although it can be reviewed and commented on,
the recommendation is not to use it yet.

## Synopsis

`observe` is a command in the
[senzing-tools](https://github.com/senzing-garage/senzing-tools)
suite of tools.
This command receives
[Observer](https://github.com/senzing-garage/go-observing)
messages over gRPC.

[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/senzing-garage/observe.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/senzing-garage/observe)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/senzing-garage/observe)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/senzing-garage/observe)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache2-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/blob/main/LICENSE)

[![gosec.yaml](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/actions/workflows/gosec.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/actions/workflows/gosec.yaml)
[![go-test-linux.yaml](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/actions/workflows/go-test-linux.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/actions/workflows/go-test-linux.yaml)
[![go-test-darwin.yaml](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/actions/workflows/go-test-darwin.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/actions/workflows/go-test-darwin.yaml)
[![go-test-windows.yaml](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/actions/workflows/go-test-windows.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/senzing-garage/observe/actions/workflows/go-test-windows.yaml)

## Overview

`observe` performs the following:

## Install

1. The `observe` command is installed with the
   [senzing-tools](https://github.com/senzing-garage/senzing-tools)
   suite of tools.
   See senzing-tools [install](https://github.com/senzing-garage/senzing-tools#install).

## Use

```console
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/senzing/g2/lib/
senzing-tools observe [flags]
```

1. For options and flags:
    1. [Online documentation](https://hub.senzing.com/senzing-tools/senzing-tools_observe.html)
    1. Runtime documentation:

        ```console
        export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/senzing/g2/lib/
        senzing-tools observe --help
        ```

1. In addition to the following simple usage examples, there are additional [Examples](docs/examples.md).

### Using command line options

1. :pencil2: Specify database using command line option.
   Example:

    ```console
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/senzing/g2/lib/
    senzing-tools observe
    ```

1. See [Parameters](#parameters) for additional parameters.

### Using environment variables

1. :pencil2: Specify database using environment variable.
   Example:

    ```console
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/senzing/g2/lib/
    senzing-tools observe
    ```

1. See [Parameters](#parameters) for additional parameters.

### Using Docker

This usage shows how to initialze a database with a Docker container.

1. :pencil2: Run `senzing/senzing-tools`.
   Example:

    ```console
    docker run \
        --rm \
        senzing/senzing-tools observe
    ```

1. See [Parameters](#parameters) for additional parameters.

### Parameters

- **[SENZING_TOOLS_LOG_LEVEL](https://github.com/senzing-garage/knowledge-base/blob/main/lists/environment-variables.md#senzing_tools_log_level)**

## References

- [Command reference](https://hub.senzing.com/senzing-tools/senzing-tools_observe.html)
- [Development](docs/development.md)
- [Errors](docs/errors.md)
- [Examples](docs/examples.md)
